Thinking about some of the things that your dad
enjoyed doing. Yes. Go ahead. And truly, if he had
time, he was wanting to be with friends. And
certainly at the top of that list would be Maggie
McGee. From Fort Worth. No, Houston. Houston.
Maggie was president of Tenneco Pipeline. Oh,
that's right. That's right. at some point was
president of former students. Now, what year was
that? That was in the 60s. But he and dad remained
friends forever. And some of the nicest trips that
mother and dad got to take were with the McGees. And
they traveled together and always were doing good
things for A&M, I think, wherever they went. And
Congressman Teague. Yes. And Dad didn't get to see
him as much just because of the distance between
D.C. and here. But their friendship went way, way,
way back to student days, didn't it? It did. I
don't, you know, people like Lupo could really
tell. And, you know, of course, Lupo was Mr.
Teague's roommate. But Mr. Lupo would tell you
that, you know, he said, I really wasn't your dad's
good friend, even though they were classmates.
Mm-hmm. But they were not as well acquainted as
Dad. Because I've heard an anecdote that I haven't
tried to follow up on, but that, let's see, Lupo got
in trouble for taking a rap from Mr. Teague's
alcohol in the dorm room or something like that.
Oh, I didn't know. I didn't know that. I didn't know
that. And that may have been a Lupo story. All
right, if your dad were going to invite a group of
buddies, friends, over to the house for an
enjoyable evening. And he was making up the guest
list. Who do you think would have been on? Maggie
McGee and who else? Maggie and Sally. Dad always
stayed in touch. MJ Green had been his best friend
from Eden, Texas. Best man in each other's
wedding. There was a painter, was one of his
classmates, John Miller. Now do you mean a house
painter or an artist painter? Well, he painted
billboards.
But apparently MJ Green and John Miller and my dad
were just the best chums from Eden, Texas. And I can
remember talking to dad about what made him do some
of the things. And I think that group, or the
competition of a group of young friends, He said, I
just couldn't stand for them to be able to do
something I couldn't do better. I think that young
boy competition, but he always stayed. Anytime
we'd go to the ranch, we'd stop by Buchanan, which
was where John Miller had settled. Now when he'd go
to the ranch, what did he check on first? We got the
part of the land that had the old family home. So my
granny and papa's mother's folks home is part of
ours. And so you'd check on the house, you'd check
on the water, you'd check on the barns, you'd check
on, then you'd get in the pickup. And the kids
always got to ride in the back of the pickup. And if
it was hunting season, it was our job to beat on the
top if we spotted a deer. But he would just He just
loved driving the pastures. And as he was driving
the pastures, he was checking on the water supply,
the quality of the grass. I can remember him
telling me about after the drought in the 50s, and
all the cattle had to be shipped, and they had been
Herefords prior to that, and O.D. Butler. helped
Dad restock the ranch after that and recommended
Black Angus. And I can remember a lesson in judging
cattle and what fine beef these were. And what did
he have before Black Angus? The Herefords, the
Whiteface.
He was really happy out there. I can remember him
chasing rattlesnakes. And he truly, he didn't do,
I guess he'd grown up doing it. I can remember him
driving in the car and if a train was coming by, he'd
race it. There were just a lot of kind of neat things
that he did his whole life. All right, let's make
believe you and your mom are gonna plan his
favorite meal. Oh, his favorite meal.
Probably roast beef or steak. He was not a big one
for vegetables. And he had
a sweet tooth that I think we all inherited. He
loved good food and good friends gathered around
and the kids. Would there have been any mashed
potatoes and gravy? Mashed potatoes and gravy,
chicken fried steak, you bet. Fried chicken.
Fried chicken, sweet tooth. What kind of pie or
cake? Pecan pie. Mother used to make lots of
desserts. She'd make a lemon meringue and a
chocolate meringue and chocolate cake.
Grandmother Roddy was a wonderful cook.
And the ranch was a ranch. It wasn't farming. It was
ranching. Right. And in both your parents, they
grew up in ranching. country. And if I were to ask
your dad geographically what part of Texas Eden
was in, what would he say? You know, West Texas. He
would have said West Texas. West Texas.
Geographically, McCullough County just next is
the geographic center by a lot of measurements of
the state of Texas. And now it's considered to be
the hill country. Now Menard County is the western
edge of the hill country. But he would have said
West Texas, that's why. Because I think it quite
often depends on people. I thought West Texas,
before we moved to El Paso, began with the
interstate that goes through Austin. I agree,
yeah. When I got to El Paso, they were saying, no,
no, no, West Texas is everything this side of
Odessa. Did they? Isn't that funny? See, it
depends on where. And they thought East Texas
began at Austin. Isn't that interesting? And I
said, no, no. Isn't that interesting? So we
agreed. Let's see. Dad's pet peeves, as you
remember. What could you do or anybody do that
would really? Not telling the truth. Not telling
the truth. There was some incident when my brother
and I, we were still living in Brady, and it had to do
with leaving soap in the sink. And the two of us had
to stand in there until one confessed. So truth
telling absolutely was essential. Ladies had to
be ladylike. I mentioned I loved to sew and I was
always encouraged to sew with big family and my
grandmother had taught me to sew on an old treadle
machine. I can remember being upstairs with my
fabric, my feet spread out and cutting fabric
between them. And I can remember Dad really not
approving of the way that the young lady was
sitting even though i was upstairs in the private
area but being you know boys were supposed to be
certain ways and girls were supposed to be certain
ways all right now uh you mentioned a while ago that
he said that he thought he smelled tobacco would it
have been acceptable for you to start smoking as a
youngster No, no. In fact, I had started smoking,
and I never smoked around him. And when the house
burned in 63, some friends back at school said, oh,
tell me you weren't smoking in the bathroom. And I
wasn't. But, oh, no. In fact, he offered, the deal
was, and I don't know if it was with the younger
kids, with my older brother and I, if we reached 21
and did not smoke, then he would give us $100. And in
1963, that was a whole lot of money. And it just
happened that the same week that I turned 21, I was
graduating from the University of Texas. And so
Mother and Dad came to graduation, and Dad hugged
me, and he said, Sister, I've got $100 in my pocket.
And he pulled it out. He said, Did you earn it? And I
said, No, sir, I didn't.
Did he say anything? Not a word. Did he act
surprised? Not a word. That was it. Okay. That was
it. Let me share with you a Missouri version of
that. The legendary football coach up there was
Don Farrow, F-A-U-R-O-T. Died three years ago,
age 93. Oh, my. Never smoked, never drank. Only
strong language was hell and damn. And I asked him
what led him up to it. And he said, well, I've got to
go watch. I said, well, I don't know what you mean.
He said, well, where I grew up, all the boys were
church-going people, were told, if you won't
smoke till you're 21, I'll give you a gold watch.
And he said to us, that was like a Cadillac. He said,
I and all my brothers got gold watches. They also
lived into their 80s and 90s. Isn't that
wonderful? Yeah. To my knowledge, I don't think
Dad ever smoked a cigarette. I never was aware of
that. I don't think even in the service. I don't
think he ever, ever did. Now, my brother, who just
stopped smoking a few years ago, I said, well, Bud,
we were comparing notes. We'd never compared
notes. And he said, I said, well, did you get your
$100? And he said, I sure did. I said, well, you
lied. And he said, no, I didn't. I just started
smoking the next day. All
right. Now, would it have been acceptable for you
to drink beer or whiskey as a youngster? Oh, no.
Okay. That was it. That was it. But in a way, I was
blessed with an easy spirit. I mean, those were
never things... Well, same for me. I grew up in that
same setting. You know, I just... There were
certain rules. Pleasing Mother and Dad was a lot
more important to me than any of that other stuff.
All right, and see, I think I see also consistency
of those attitudes in your family and what A&M...
50s, 60s was. Situation's different in a whole
bunch of ways now than then. All right, let's go
near the sad part. Were you aware of any failure in
your day? Let me just mention one thing, too. My
son, when he was in med school in Dallas, would talk
to high school and junior high kids. And he would
tell the story. And he'd say, we always had to go,
just my brother and me and mom. But he said, we
always had to go and kiss mother when we got home.
And she always took a deep breath. So she knew what
we had been doing. Been there. Anyway, so it does
carry on. Oh, let's see. When you would come in from
a date, somebody was still awake. Oh, yeah. Oh,
yes. Mm-hmm. Well, it wasn't that late. No, no, but
whether it was or was not. Oh, sure. Oh, sure. Were
you aware of any health problem your dad was having
before his death? I know that when he would go to the
hospital, he didn't want visitors. And I know that
there were a few times when he would have spells.
See, we faculty types were not aware of it. The
Christmas before Dad died, I was in Michigan. My
son Mark and I had lost a first baby. So the second
baby was the first grandchild and was much loved
and way too far away. Dad insisted he wanted me home
for Christmas. And I can't remember all the
circumstances, but I would have been able to come a
month in early February and stay a long time. And so
I didn't come at Christmas. Now that would have
been Christmas of 69. Of 69. And then I got the call
that he was in Houston and was very ill. late
January, I think last May 30th of January. So it's
almost like I wasn't aware that he was sick, but
looking back on things, you know, you just think
something was going on. He had never, he had never
been insistent like that, that I come home and
bring the baby. And also, I'm assuming, jumping to
confusion again about Texas and real world, I'm
assuming that he thought of himself as a strong,
able-bodied man. He loved it. He loved a hitsack.
Feel that. Feel that. He's got strong legs and
hitsack. Feel that muscle. And even his arms. Like
heck I can't. I'll show you that I can't.
The only time when I was pregnant after, again,
having lost the first baby, I came home and I just
was nearly pregnant, and that was when we had
Ranger, the bulldog, and we were out at Carter
Lake, and my brother and the dog were in Head Davis'
little John boat, and I wanted to get in, and Dad
said, Sister, don't get in. I'm not sure I can jump
in and save you. So, you know, a few things like
that, but never... Before, and then sure enough
the dog jumped in and drowned. Let's digress on
Ranger. How old was Ranger, the dog? We had
several. The only dogs we'd ever had were
Bulldogs. There's a picture of me with Dad getting
off the Victory Loan train, and he comes off with
this little Brendol Bulldog pup. And from then on,
that's all we had was Bulldogs. But the dog that's
buried on, that's Ranger. Right. Well, they were
all rangers, except for one female with Lady.
Right. Now, that's not the dog that you all brought
here when you moved here, is it? The one that's
buried? No. No. One died, and then the Corps gave my
brother another one. I really think it was that
very last one that was such a character. I think so.
I think so. I think so. And is buried there. Now,
whose idea was that? Do you know? No. No. Because I
don't think it was your family's idea. I think that
was the Corps' idea or something. Probably.
Because I think they had gifted Bob that dog.
Because if I'm not mistaken, that dog had just
about the same privileges as Rebel. Oh, and I think
it had been fed so much that it had health problems
and it had... Was that the one that even operated on
it? Because, you know, bulldogs are notoriously
hard to breathe because of their facial
construction. I think so. All right, so you
weren't aware of any approaching serious health
problems on your dad. All right, and then you got
the call. His blood pressure was high. He worked
too hard. He didn't eat, you know, all of that.
Because now what I heard through the grapevine
was, combination of heart and kidney, and that
each affected the other. Those are things Mother
could tell you. The only time I became, I remember
being aware of kidney problems were after he was in
the hospital. I wasn't aware of any kidney
problems prior to that. How long was he in the
hospital? He had apparently a stroke or cerebral
hemorrhage. I want to say it was January 30th. And
then he died March 23rd. He was here just a day or
two. And then,
how did I get home?
Maybe even Maggie, I know Maggie McGee came to get
me in the tentacle plane when Dad died on that day.
And he may have done it even before that, when Dad
was, I can't remember how I got home with Mark. Now
for me, as a young faculty member, the memorial
service was the biggest gathering I'd ever seen of
national leaders. And that I remember, and that
was an illustration of me, to me, of your
father's... I'd never met President Johnson
before that. I'd never met Mrs. Johnson. I was so
struck by their kindness. I was struck by her
beauty. Yes, yes, yes, yes. To this day, I can't
walk into the first floor of the old systems
building, of the Williams building, because
that's where dad was. They had him in the castle.
Let's see. I'll tell you, Lady Bird Johnson, this
is the first board meeting, regents meeting,
after we got to UT El Paso. Mrs. Johnson had just
gone off the UT board But she was invited to this
dinner on Thursday night, and you'd go through,
get your meal, and then we were having it at the
Chancellor's Residence, and we go into the
library, and here comes Mrs. Johnson. So we go over
and introduce ourselves, and I told her a story
about when Linda Bird, as a freshman at Austin,
came over here in the fall, I think it was 62, to
Scoma to hear her father speak. And the Corps
commander at the event all-male Texas A&M took
Linda Bird to eat lunch in Duncan Binding Hall a
week after the Longhorns had massacred the Aggies
on Thanksgiving Day. And in the middle of the meal,
at a given signal, every freshman jumped up and
yelled, beat the hell out of TU. Oh, no. And they all
then stopped and stared at her. She slowly put her
napkin on the table. The room got very quiet. She
sat there a moment, then stood up, pushed the chair
underneath the table, stared at the group, and
then did hook on horn and yelled out, hook on horn.
And everybody stood and cheered for her. And when I
told Mrs. Johnson that, she smiled. She said,
that's my girl. How's her health? She can barely
walk. She then said, I begged my daughters not to
marry a politician. not to put their children
through all the problems that we put them through.
But she said, Chuck has campaigning for governor.
I'll be up there in Richmond Monday to help him
campaign. And I thought, oh boy. Now,
your dad made these great changes here. Are there
some things that you thought thought I was going to
chat about that I have forgotten and have
overlooked. What are some other things that we
should have covered that I haven't? Gosh, you're
so good at this. How many are you going to
interview? Do you know all the total? Oh,
countless. Dozens. Oh, I've already done 50 some
odd. Have you really? Yeah. This will go on two or
three, four years. No, really, I just feel
battling that I don't have... more pertinent
recollections. But truly, I think the best thing
my folks did for me was to kind of turn me loose once
we got here. Because I absolutely loved it. Now, I
don't remember your mother's health being ever, I
always remember her in high gear. She was in high
gear. The only problem she's had is she's had foot
problems. And she really, the walk, the standing
and receiving lines was, I think, very difficult
for her. And... But she and I played tennis until
after we got here for years. Now, let's see, in
terms of the, did your dad enjoy Aggie athletics or
was that a? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. In fact, having been
the football coach in Brady, and then as mayor, at
the time we left there, he had been mayor of Brady.
Oh, sure. And I just remember, I mean, he loved
going there. And for me, all my other friends were
allowed to run and play. And I had to sit, and I had to
press up. But other questions? Other things that I
haven't looked at, I forgot. Well, if there are,
when you get the typescript, please add them.
Thanks. Like I said, I just loved my daddy. I think
that's it. But let's close with this. If he were
here today, what do you think his opinion would be
of Texas A&M as it is now? That is one thing. After
you told me you wanted to come talk to me, one of the
things I thought is that often, not often, but
through the years, people have been very free
about saying what daddy would or would not have
done. And the one thing my dad was not was
predictable. And so, I have really,
to look at A&M, you just have to know that he would be
pleased as punch. But as far as opinion on
specifics and stuff, he was never that
predictable that I would even,
I just, like we said early on, of all the people I've
known in my 57 almost years, he loved doing what
he's doing. He didn't, if he had complaints, he
didn't verbalize them in my earshot. And I just, I
think if he could see what it has become, he would
just be overwhelmed. He deserves so much of the
credit. That's a great thing.